
---


```
NEWS: hybridMANTIS (v.1.0) is now available for download!!! 
      The source codes and associated documentation is available at http://code.google.com/p/hybridmantis/.
```

---

# Project Summary #
**MANTIS** (Monte carlo x-rAy electroN opTical Imaging Simulation) is a tool for simulating imaging systems that tracks x-rays, electrons and optical photons in arbitrary materials and complex geometries. The code MANTIS is the intimate combination of two codes: **PENELOPE** (an x-ray/electron Monte Carlo transport code) and **DETECT-II** (an optical photon Monte Carlo transport code). It is intended for the study of problems involving indirect imaging sensors in which light is generated by the interaction of particles with matter in a transducer material. In MANTIS, the processes of energy transfer from secondary electrons to light is modeled event by event, according to an energy-dependent gain and with a particular model for the variations in the efficiency of that energy transfer.

Please use the following citation when referring to this work:

  * [Badano, A. & Sempau, J. MANTIS: combined x-ray, electron and optical Monte Carlo simulations of indirect radiation imaging systems. Phys Med Biol, 2006, 51, 1545-1561](http://iopscience.iop.org/0031-9155/51/6/013/).

Source code, executable, and exercise files in MANTIS\_ver2.01.ZIP.
The previous version MANTIS\_V2.zip has been deleted. At the time of deletion (July 31, 2012) it was downloaded 181 times. The only difference between the two versions is the removal of unnecessary files not being used by the code.


---

## hybridMANTIS ##
hybridMANTIS is a Monte Carlo package for modeling indirect x-ray detectors with columnar scintillators using a novel hybrid CPU-GPU technique. This hybrid approach maximizes the utilization of CPUs and GPUs in modern workstations. hybridMANTIS uses PENELOPE for the x-ray/electron transport and fastDETECT2 for the optical transport. fastDETECT2 is a complete rewrite and improved version of DETECT2 (optical transport code used in MANTIS). It includes several new features like on-the-fly column geometry and columnar crosstalk to model the columnar arrays more realistically as compared to MANTIS. A load balancer is implemented to dynamically allocate optical transport showers to the GPU and CPU computing cores.

This work has been published in Physics in Medicine and Biology and also presented at the AAPM 2011 meeting. The source code and associated documentation is available at http://code.google.com/p/hybridmantis/.

  * [Diksha Sharma, Andreu Badal and Aldo Badano, "hybridMANTIS: a CPU-GPU Monte Carlo method for modeling indirect x-ray detectors with columnar scintillators", Physics in Medicine and Biology, 57 (8), p. 2357-72 (2012)](http://iopscience.iop.org/0031-9155/57/8/2357/article).

hybridMANTIS has been validated against experimental and MANTIS data (obtained from Freed et al., Medical Physics 36(11), 4944–4956, 2009) and found to be matching as good as or better than MANTIS. This work will be presented at the IWDM 2012 conference in Philadelphia this year.


---

## DATA from MANTIS ##
Depth-dependent response of a CsI detector used in the paper "A fast, angle-dependent, analytical model of CsI detector response for optimization of 3D x-ray breast imaging systems", by Freed et al. (see section II.D. and Fig. 5 of paper for details, Medical Physics, Vol. 37, No. 6, June 2010). Some details are included here: 10,000 optical photon histories at different depths in a 150 micron thick CsI crystal with depths from 0 to 145 mircon at intervals of 5 microns.

Data available in prf\_mantis\_web.zip


---

### DISCLAIMER ###
This software and documentation (the "Software") were developed at the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) by employees of the Federal Government in the course of their official duties. Pursuant to [Title 17, Section 105 of the United States Code](http://www.copyright.gov/title17/92chap1.html#105), this work is not subject to copyright protection and is in the public domain. Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of the Software, to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, or sell copies of the Software or derivatives, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so. FDA assumes no responsibility whatsoever for use by other parties of the Software, its source code, documentation or compiled executables, and makes no guarantees, expressed or implied, about its quality, reliability, or any other characteristic. Further, use of this code in no way implies endorsement by the FDA or confers any advantage in regulatory decisions. Although this software can be redistributed and/or modified freely, we ask that any derivative works bear some notice that they are derived from it, and any modified versions bear some notice that they have been modified.


---
